README.md, before:

# CodeDiff AI

![CodeDiff AI Banner](https://placehold.co/1200x300/0a0a0a/ffffff?text=CodeDiff+AI:+Economic+Security+Engine)

<div align="center">

**The First Economic Security Engine for GitHub**  
*Translating Code Vulnerabilities into Financial Risk.*

[![Next.js 14](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js%2014-black?style=flat-square&logo=next.js)](https://nextjs.org/)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0-blue?style=flat-square&logo=typescript)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![Prisma](https://img.shields.io/badge/Prisma-ORM-teal?style=flat-square&logo=prisma)](https://www.prisma.io/)
[![NeonDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/Neon-Serverless%20Postgres-green?style=flat-square&logo=postgresql)](https://neon.tech/)
[![AI Orchestration](https://img.shields.io/badge/AI-Multi--Model-purple?style=flat-square&logo=openai)](https://github.com/features/actions)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

</div>

---

## 🏁 **Final Note to AlamedaHacks Judges**

> **🏁 Final Note to Judges:**
> Every innovative feature in CodeDiff AI (The Attack Simulator, The Financial Calculator, and The Multi-Model Council) was built **entirely during this hackathon**. We used a standard Next.js boilerplate for setup, but 100% of the logic, AI orchestration, and security engines are original work created for this event.



## 🚀 The Problem vs. The Solution

### The Problem
Traditional tools (ESLint, SonarQube) speak "Developer." They flag null pointer exceptions and syntax errors. But in Fintech, a CEO or Chief Risk Officer doesn't care about a "missing semicolon" or "SQL Injection"—they care about a **$5M GDPR Fine**, **Regulatory Non-Compliance**, or **Fraud Liability**. There is a massive translation gap between *technical debt* and *financial risk*.

### The Solution
**CodeDiff AI** is the translation layer. It is an intelligent security pipeline that sits between your Payment Gateway and your Pull Requests. It orchestrates specific AI models to audit code, not just for bugs, but for **business logic flaws**. It then quantifies the exact financial liability of that code (e.g., "$1.2M potential fraud loss due to Race Condition") before it ever reaches production.

---

## ⚡ Key Features (The Secret Sauce)

CodeDiff AI isn't a wrapper around OpenAI. It is a complex **Multi-Model Orchestrator** designed for high-precision auditing.

###  🕹️ Interactive Attack Simulation (The "Neural Terminal")
**We don't just tell you there is a bug; we show you how to hack it.**
Instead of static logs, we built a **Live Attack Replay Engine** directly into the dashboard.
* **What it does:** It generates a deterministic "hacker script" based on the specific vulnerability found.
* **The Experience:** Developers watch a simulated terminal window type out the exploit (Detect → Inject → Bypass) in real-time.
* **Why:** Seeing the hack happen live motivates fixes 40% faster than a static warning label.

###  🧮 Zero-Trust Math Layer (Luhn & PCI)
**AI hallucinates. Math doesn't.**
We implemented a rigid, deterministic validation layer for financial compliance.
* **Luhn Algorithm Engine:** We don't guess if a number is a credit card. We mathematically verify it using the Luhn checksum formula.
* **Zero False Positives:** If the math doesn't check out, the alert is suppressed. This ensures developers only see *real* PCI-DSS violations, preventing alert fatigue.

### 🧠 Multi-Model AI Orchestrator
We don't trust one brain. We use a "Council of AIs" to review every line of code (see `lib/ai/orchestrator.ts`):

1.  **The Syntax Specialist (Groq & DeepSeek V3):**
    *   *Role:* Lightning-fast analysis of syntax, logic errors, and strict bug hunting.
    *   *Why:* Extremely low latency and high precision for code structures.
2.  **The Chief Risk Officer (Gemini 1.5 Pro):**
    *   *Role:* Contextual security analysis and financial impact estimation.
    *   *Why:* Massive context window allows it to read surrounding files and understand *why* a bug matters financially.
3.  **The Librarian (HuggingFace Zero-Shot):**
    *   *Role:* Intent classification.
    *   *Why:* Determines if a PR is a "Database Migration," "UI Tweak," or "Critical Auth Change."

### 💰 Financial Risk Quantification
CodeDiff AI assigns a dollar value to code quality.
*   **Regulatory Fines:** Automatically calculates potential GDPR/PCI-DSS fines based on data exposure types.
*   **Fraud Multipliers:** Applies industry-specific multipliers (e.g., 2.8x for Banking Race Conditions) to estimate liability.
*   **Visual Matrix:** Plots technical complexity against financial impact in real-time.

### 🧬 Self-Healing Infrastructure
The system includes a robust self-healing database layer (`prisma/schema.prisma`). If a GitHub App installation ID changes or a repository is moved, CodeDiff automatically updates strict relational links, ensuring audit trails never break.

---

## 🏗️ System Architecture

CodeDiff AI follows an event-driven, serverless architecture deployed on Vercel(working for better production level SaaS).

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[GitHub Webhook] -->|Push/PR Event| B(Next.js Edge API)
    B --> C{AI Orchestrator}
    
    subgraph "The Council of AIs"
        C -->|Intent Classify| D[HuggingFace]
        C -->|Bug Hunt| E[DeepSeek / Groq]
        C -->|Impact Analysis| F[Gemini 1.5 Pro]
    end
    
    D & E & F --> G[Synthesis Engine]
    G --> H[Risk Score Algorithm]
    
    H --> I[(Neon Serverless DB)]
    H --> J[GitHub PR Comment]
    H --> K[Next.js Dashboard]
```

**Tech Stack:**
*   **Framework:** Next.js 14 (App Router)
*   **Language:** TypeScript
*   **Database:** PostgreSQL (Neon) via Prisma ORM
*   **Auth:** Clerk
*   **AI Providers:** Google Gemini, OpenRouter (DeepSeek), HuggingFace Inference
*   **Visualization:** Recharts & Lucide React

---

## 🛠️ Local Setup Guide

Follow these steps to run the Economic Security Engine locally.

### 1. Prerequisites
*   Node.js 18+
*   PostgreSQL Database (Local or Neon)
*   A GitHub App created in your settings.

### 2. Clone & Install
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/codediff-ai.git
cd codediff-ai
pnpm install
```

### 3. Environment Variables
Create a `.env` file in the root directory. You will need keys for the AI providers and Database.

```env
# Database
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://user:password@host:port/codediff?sslmode=require"

# AI Providers
GEMINI_API_KEY="AIzaSy..."
OPENROUTER_API_KEY="sk-or-..."
HUGGINGFACE_API_KEY="hf_..."
# GROQ_API_KEY="gsk_..." (Optional if using Groq fallback)

# GitHub App Configuration
GITHUB_APP_ID="12345"
GITHUB_PRIVATE_KEY="-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----..."
GITHUB_WEBHOOK_SECRET="your_webhook_secret"
GITHUB_CLIENT_ID="iv1..."
GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET="..."

# App Configuration
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL="http://localhost:3000"
NEXT_PUBLIC_GITHUB_INSTALL_URL="https://github.com/apps/codediff-ai/installations/new"

# Authentication
CLERK_SECRET_KEY="sk_..."
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY="pk_..."
```

### 4. Database Migration
Sync your Prisma schema with your database.
```bash
npx prisma generate
npx prisma db push
```

### 5. Run Development Server
```bash
npm run dev
```
Visit `http://localhost:3000` to access the dashboard. To trigger an audit, use a tool like `ngrok` to tunnel GitHub webhooks to your local machine.

---

## 🔮 Future Scope (Roadmap)

We are building the operating system for Fintech Security.

*   **Phase 1 (Current): Economic Security Engine**
    *   Detection, Financial Quantification,Live vulnaribilty and Compliance Mapping.
*   **Phase 2 (Q4 2026): Predictive Debt Oracle**
    *   Analyzes git velocity and churn to predict architectural breakage.
    *   "If you merge this, module X will fail in 3 months."
*   **Phase 3 (Year 1): Codebase DNA Sequencer**
    *   Genetic analysis of project health over time, tracking "mutation" of code patterns into anti-patterns.

---

## 📸 Screenshots

| Financial Dashboard | Risk Analysis |
### 1. The Economic Security Dashboard
*Real-time quantification of financial risk and regulatory liability.*
![Financial Risk Dashboard](./public/dashboard.png)

### 2. Compliance & Risk Matrix
*Visualizing high-stakes vulnerabilities mapped against potential financial loss.*
![Compliance Matrix](./public/scan.png)

### 2.Neural Terminal:
![Fake Terminal](./public/terminal.png)



Made with ❤️ for teams who measure security by dollars saved, not checklists.

Commit message:

Update section numbers and add 'How It Works' section
Renumbered sections in README for clarity and added a new section on how it works.

README.md, after:

# CodeDiff AI

![CodeDiff AI Banner](https://placehold.co/1200x300/0a0a0a/ffffff?text=CodeDiff+AI:+Economic+Security+Engine)

<div align="center">

**The First Economic Security Engine for GitHub**  
*Translating Code Vulnerabilities into Financial Risk.*

[![Next.js 14](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js%2014-black?style=flat-square&logo=next.js)](https://nextjs.org/)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0-blue?style=flat-square&logo=typescript)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![Prisma](https://img.shields.io/badge/Prisma-ORM-teal?style=flat-square&logo=prisma)](https://www.prisma.io/)
[![NeonDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/Neon-Serverless%20Postgres-green?style=flat-square&logo=postgresql)](https://neon.tech/)
[![AI Orchestration](https://img.shields.io/badge/AI-Multi--Model-purple?style=flat-square&logo=openai)](https://github.com/features/actions)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

</div>

---

## 🏁 **Final Note to AlamedaHacks Judges**

> **🏁 Final Note to Judges:**
> Every innovative feature in CodeDiff AI (The Attack Simulator, The Financial Calculator, and The Multi-Model Council) was built **entirely during this hackathon**. We used a standard Next.js boilerplate for setup, but 100% of the logic, AI orchestration, and security engines are original work created for this event.



## 🚀 The Problem vs. The Solution

### The Problem
Traditional tools (ESLint, SonarQube) speak "Developer." They flag null pointer exceptions and syntax errors. But in Fintech, a CEO or Chief Risk Officer doesn't care about a "missing semicolon" or "SQL Injection"—they care about a **$5M GDPR Fine**, **Regulatory Non-Compliance**, or **Fraud Liability**. There is a massive translation gap between *technical debt* and *financial risk*.

### The Solution
**CodeDiff AI** is the translation layer. It is an intelligent security pipeline that sits between your Payment Gateway and your Pull Requests. It orchestrates specific AI models to audit code, not just for bugs, but for **business logic flaws**. It then quantifies the exact financial liability of that code (e.g., "$1.2M potential fraud loss due to Race Condition") before it ever reaches production.

---

## ⚡ Key Features (The Secret Sauce)

CodeDiff AI isn't a wrapper around OpenAI. It is a complex **Multi-Model Orchestrator** designed for high-precision auditing.

###  🕹️ Interactive Attack Simulation (The "Neural Terminal")
**We don't just tell you there is a bug; we show you how to hack it.**
Instead of static logs, we built a **Live Attack Replay Engine** directly into the dashboard.
* **What it does:** It generates a deterministic "hacker script" based on the specific vulnerability found.
* **The Experience:** Developers watch a simulated terminal window type out the exploit (Detect → Inject → Bypass) in real-time.
* **Why:** Seeing the hack happen live motivates fixes 40% faster than a static warning label.

###  🧮 Zero-Trust Math Layer (Luhn & PCI)
**AI hallucinates. Math doesn't.**
We implemented a rigid, deterministic validation layer for financial compliance.
* **Luhn Algorithm Engine:** We don't guess if a number is a credit card. We mathematically verify it using the Luhn checksum formula.
* **Zero False Positives:** If the math doesn't check out, the alert is suppressed. This ensures developers only see *real* PCI-DSS violations, preventing alert fatigue.

### 🧠 Multi-Model AI Orchestrator
We don't trust one brain. We use a "Council of AIs" to review every line of code (see `lib/ai/orchestrator.ts`):

1.  **The Syntax Specialist (Groq & DeepSeek V3):**
    *   *Role:* Lightning-fast analysis of syntax, logic errors, and strict bug hunting.
    *   *Why:* Extremely low latency and high precision for code structures.
2.  **The Chief Risk Officer (Gemini 1.5 Pro):**
    *   *Role:* Contextual security analysis and financial impact estimation.
    *   *Why:* Massive context window allows it to read surrounding files and understand *why* a bug matters financially.
3.  **The Librarian (HuggingFace Zero-Shot):**
    *   *Role:* Intent classification.
    *   *Why:* Determines if a PR is a "Database Migration," "UI Tweak," or "Critical Auth Change."

### 💰 Financial Risk Quantification
CodeDiff AI assigns a dollar value to code quality.
*   **Regulatory Fines:** Automatically calculates potential GDPR/PCI-DSS fines based on data exposure types.
*   **Fraud Multipliers:** Applies industry-specific multipliers (e.g., 2.8x for Banking Race Conditions) to estimate liability.
*   **Visual Matrix:** Plots technical complexity against financial impact in real-time.

### 🧬 Self-Healing Infrastructure
The system includes a robust self-healing database layer (`prisma/schema.prisma`). If a GitHub App installation ID changes or a repository is moved, CodeDiff automatically updates strict relational links, ensuring audit trails never break.

---

## 🏗️ System Architecture

CodeDiff AI follows an event-driven, serverless architecture deployed on Vercel(working for better production level SaaS).

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[GitHub Webhook] -->|Push/PR Event| B(Next.js Edge API)
    B --> C{AI Orchestrator}
    
    subgraph "The Council of AIs"
        C -->|Intent Classify| D[HuggingFace]
        C -->|Bug Hunt| E[DeepSeek / Groq]
        C -->|Impact Analysis| F[Gemini 1.5 Pro]
    end
    
    D & E & F --> G[Synthesis Engine]
    G --> H[Risk Score Algorithm]
    
    H --> I[(Neon Serverless DB)]
    H --> J[GitHub PR Comment]
    H --> K[Next.js Dashboard]
```

**Tech Stack:**
*   **Framework:** Next.js 14 (App Router)
*   **Language:** TypeScript
*   **Database:** PostgreSQL (Neon) via Prisma ORM
*   **Auth:** Clerk
*   **AI Providers:** Google Gemini, OpenRouter (DeepSeek), HuggingFace Inference
*   **Visualization:** Recharts & Lucide React

---

## 🛠️ Local Setup Guide

Follow these steps to run the Economic Security Engine locally.

### 1. Prerequisites
*   Node.js 18+
*   PostgreSQL Database (Local or Neon)
*   A GitHub App created in your settings.

### 2. Clone & Install
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/codediff-ai.git
cd codediff-ai
pnpm install
```

### 3. Environment Variables
Create a `.env` file in the root directory. You will need keys for the AI providers and Database.

```env
# Database
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://user:password@host:port/codediff?sslmode=require"

# AI Providers
GEMINI_API_KEY="AIzaSy..."
OPENROUTER_API_KEY="sk-or-..."
HUGGINGFACE_API_KEY="hf_..."
# GROQ_API_KEY="gsk_..." (Optional if using Groq fallback)

# GitHub App Configuration
GITHUB_APP_ID="12345"
GITHUB_PRIVATE_KEY="-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----..."
GITHUB_WEBHOOK_SECRET="your_webhook_secret"
GITHUB_CLIENT_ID="iv1..."
GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET="..."

# App Configuration
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL="http://localhost:3000"
NEXT_PUBLIC_GITHUB_INSTALL_URL="https://github.com/apps/codediff-ai/installations/new"

# Authentication
CLERK_SECRET_KEY="sk_..."
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY="pk_..."
```

### 4. Database Migration
Sync your Prisma schema with your database.
```bash
npx prisma generate
npx prisma db push
```

### 5. Run Development Server
```bash
npm run dev
```
Visit `http://localhost:3000` to access the dashboard. To trigger an audit, use a tool like `ngrok` to tunnel GitHub webhooks to your local machine.

---

## 🔮 Future Scope (Roadmap)

We are building the operating system for Fintech Security.

*   **Phase 1 (Current): Economic Security Engine**
    *   Detection, Financial Quantification,Live vulnaribilty and Compliance Mapping.
*   **Phase 2 (Q4 2026): Predictive Debt Oracle**
    *   Analyzes git velocity and churn to predict architectural breakage.
    *   "If you merge this, module X will fail in 3 months."
*   **Phase 3 (Year 1): Codebase DNA Sequencer**
    *   Genetic analysis of project health over time, tracking "mutation" of code patterns into anti-patterns.

---

## 📸 Screenshots

| Financial Dashboard | Risk Analysis |
### 1. The Economic Security Dashboard
*Real-time quantification of financial risk and regulatory liability.*
![Financial Risk Dashboard](./public/dashboard.png)

### 2. Compliance & Risk Matrix
*Visualizing high-stakes vulnerabilities mapped against potential financial loss.*
![Compliance Matrix](./public/scan.png)

### 3.Neural Terminal:
![Fake Terminal](./public/terminal.png)

### 4.How It Works(the calculation of scores etc):
![How It Works](./public/help.png)

Made with ❤️ for teams who measure security by dollars saved, not checklists.
